Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.
	Que:1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
	Answer:A) Create
	       D) ALTER
	Que:2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
	Answer:A) Update
	       B) Delete

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
	Que:3. Full form of SQL is:
	Answer:B) Structured Query Language
	Que:4. Full form of DDL is:
	Answer:B) Data Definition Language
	Que:5. DML is:
	Answer:A) Data Manipulation Language
	Que:6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type? 
	Answer:C) Create Table A (B int,C float) 
	Que:7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
	Answer:B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
	Que:8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
	Answer:B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
	Que:9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of
	table A created in above questions?
	Answer:B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
	Que:10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following
statements we can do it?
	Answer:C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.
	Que:11. What is data-warehouse?
	Answer: Data-warehouse:  Data warehouse is a relational database that is designed for query and analysis rather than for transaction processing. 
	It usually contains historical data derived from transaction data, but it can include data from other sources. 
	It separates analysis workload from transaction workload and enables an organization to consolidate data from several sources.
	A Data Warehouse is separate from DBMS, it stores huge amount of data, which is typically collected from multiple heterogeneous source like files, DBMS, etc.
	The goal is to produce statistical results that may help in decision makings.
	For example, a college might want to see quick different results, like how is the placement of CS students has improved over last 10 years, in terms of salaries, counts, etc.
	Need of Data Warehouse:
	An ordinary Database can store MBs to GBs of data and that too for a specific purpose. For storing data of TB size, the storage shifted to Data Warehouse. 
	Besides this, a transactional database doesn’t offer itself to analytics. To effectively perform analytics, 
	an organization keeps a central Data Warehouse to closely study its business by organizing, understanding and using its historic data for taking strategic decisions and analyzing trends.
	Example Applications of Data Warehousing:
	Data Warehousing can be applicable anywhere where we have huge amount of data and we want to see statistical results that help in decision making.

	Que:12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
	Answer:OLTP and OLAP: The two terms look similar but refer to different kinds of systems. Online transaction processing (OLTP) captures, stores, and processes data from transactions in real time. 
	Online analytical processing (OLAP) uses complex queries to analyze aggregated historical data from OLTP systems.
	OLTP:
	An OLTP system captures and maintains transaction data in a database. Each transaction involves individual database records made up of multiple fields or columns.
	Examples include banking and credit card activity or retail checkout scanning.
	In OLTP, the emphasis is on fast processing, because OLTP databases are read, written, and updated frequently. 
	If a transaction fails, built-in system logic ensures data integrity.
	OLAP:
	OLAP applies complex queries to large amounts of historical data, aggregated from OLTP databases and other sources, 
	for data mining, analytics, and business intelligence projects. In OLAP, the emphasis is on response time to these complex queries. 
	Each query involves one or more columns of data aggregated from many rows. 
	Examples include year-over-year financial performance or marketing lead generation trends.
	OLAP databases and data warehouses give analysts and decision-makers the ability to use custom reporting tools to turn data into information. 
	Query failure in OLAP does not interrupt or delay transaction processing for customers, but it can delay or impact the accuracy of business intelligence insights.

	Que:13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
	Answer:The various characteristics of data-warehouse:
			--> Some data is denormalized for simplification and to improve performance.

			--> Large amounts of historical data are used.

			--> Queries often retrieve large amounts of data.

			--> Both planned and ad hoc queries are common.

			--> The data load is controlled.
	
	Que:14. What is Star-Schema?
	Answer: In data warehousing and business intelligence (BI), a star schema is the simplest form of a dimensional model, in which data is organized into facts and dimensions. 
		A fact is an event that is counted or measured, such as a sale or login.  A dimension contains reference information about the fact, such as date, product, or customer. 
		A star schema is diagramed by surrounding each fact with its associated dimensions. The resulting diagram resembles a star. 
		Star schemas are optimized for querying large data sets and are used in data warehouses and data marts to support OLAP cubes, 
		business intelligence and analytic applications, and ad hoc queries. 

	Que:15. What do you mean by SETL?
	Answer: SETL: SETL(SET Language) is a very high-level programming language based on the mathematical theory of sets.
	SETL provides two basic aggregate data types: unordered sets, and sequences (the latter also called tuples).
	The elements of sets and tuples can be of any arbitrary type, including sets and tuples themselves.
	Maps are provided as sets of pairs (i.e., tuples of length 2) and can have arbitrary domain and range types.
	Primitive operations in SETL include set membership, union, intersection, and power set construction, among others.
	SETL provides quantified boolean expressions constructed using the universal and existential quantifiers of first-order predicate logic.
	SETL provides several iterators to produce a variety of loops over aggregate data structures.		


	